DYLAN: Previously on Instinct...Welcome to
Abnormal Behavioral Analysis.
My name is
Professor Dylan Reinhart.
Detective Elizabeth Needham,
NYPD.
You're not just some boring
old professor. You're CIA?
Retired.DYLAN: You can't access
sealed documents?
That's why they're sealed.That's why I have friends.
JULIAN: Don't tell me.
You need intel and the NYPD
is slowing you down.
Just in case.If I were to call,
what would I call you?Julian.
Lizzie, Dylan, meet Jules,
our new computer associate.
Nice to meet you both.DYLAN: This is Ryan,
I'm helping him with
the Sleeping Beauty case.
FUCCI:
I've got a list of the family,
friends and neighbors
of the Sleeping Beauty vic.
Let's start
narrowing it down.Or we could open it up.
LIZZIE: You're gonna be a great father.
Any child would be lucky to have
you and Andy as their dads.
Yes, I can verify that
Samantha Amrimitsu
works here.
It seems Sam is leaving
because she is pregnant,
and placing her baby
for adoption.
You know when you said that
babies don't just
magically appear...
Are we ready for some magic?
♪ Well, if you don't
like girls ♪
♪ That are stronger than you
♪ And if you don't like girls
that are faster than you ♪
that are smarter than you ♪
♪ Well, then you might not
like me ♪
♪
♪ Well, if you don't, don't
♪ Well, if you don't...
[laughter]
♪ Faster than you
♪ Well, if you don't
like girls ♪
[laughter]You are perfection.
How about now?[laughter]
S'up, girls?
Alex, looking good.
Happy birthday.
♪ Well, then you might not
like me. ♪
That dude is so creepy.
SHAYLA: Didn't stop
you from dating him.
JUSTIN: Well, it appears he's
working for you tonight.
Not for long.
Sounds like a job for stepmom.
Hi, honey.
Stepmom,
you need to send that dude home.
Alex, what'd I tell you about
talking to Ella that way?
It's okay.
Honey, what did he do?
He's a perv with
a criminal record.
I'll go talk to him.No, I'll handle it.
And you, enjoy your party.
Yup. Thanks.
All I want is to make
a big splash.
Something the school will be
talking about all year.
♪ Eh, I'm on a spaceship
♪ You got the kind of love
that's taking me new places ♪
♪ Eh, I found a spaceship...
Hey, Molly.
Ella, you okay?
Yeah.
Who knew a sweet 16
could be so stressful?
I haven't felt this anxious
since we made our first
chocolate soufflé together.
Have you seen a cater-waiter
who looks like a perv?
[laughs] Uh, I saw a pervy one
go that way.
Thanks, Molly.
Oh, no, no, no,
that's totally fine.
Happy birthday, sweets.
Love you.
Love you, too, Mom.
Are you sure you don't
want to stay?
Yeah.
Have fun.
[dance music playing]
♪ Shake the, shake the room,
room, room... ♪
Hey, are you the one
who knows Alex?
Uh, yeah.Yeah, you need to go.
You heard me. Go.
For real?
Whatever, bitch.
♪ Shake the, shake the room,
room... ♪
[music continues faintly]
Ella, it's almost time.
I need your help.Coming.
I fired that guy.
[chuckles]
DJ: All right, all right,
all right, party people!
Now is the moment you've all
been waiting for,
16 years in the making.
Turn your attention to the stage
and greet our one and only
birthday girl!
[cheering]
[gasping, murmuring]
STEVE:
Ella.
Ella!
JUSTIN: People will definitely
be talking about this.
God forbid you should fail
to capture this vital moment
of us getting coffee.
You get a free latte
if you post a selfie here.
if you work at the NYPD here.
You're telling
me this now?
Any word from Sam?
Uh-uh.
I think we should call her.
Right now.
She's talking to a
case worker, all right.
It's an
emotional process
regardless of how
amazing we are,
and we are,
let's face it, amazing.
We can't rush her.
It'll make Sam not want
to place her baby with us.
Absolutely.
You're right.
Still, it has been four whole
days, maybe we should call her.
You know, in every
aspect of your life
you have endless patience
for human behavior,
but in this one thing you are
being a complete control freak.
Come on, control freaks
are obsessive-compulsive,
passive-aggressive,
even mood disordered.
Mm-hmm. So we agree.
JAY:
So great to meet you.
RYAN:
Thank you, Jay.
I really appreciate
the help.
Not sure I was much,
but I'll stay in touch.
Great.
Hey.
Did you make
a new friend,
or is Sleeping Beauty
starting to stir?
He was the bartender. Served our
victim the night she was killed.
You found a witness?
Well done, Detective Stock.Thank you.
Hopefully from there, I can
start tracking her whereabouts
the whole night leading up
to her death.
Oh, if I can be of any help...
It's getting hard for me
to stay away from this case.
All right.
Be sure to get the
salt and pepper shakers, too.
[laughs] Are you kidding me?
This meal cost me 35 bucks.
The last time I spent that much
on a meal, my cousin,
he bet me that I couldn't
eat 20 bratwurst.
Downed 22.
Oh, uh, Ryan, this
is my husband, Andy.
Uh, Detective
Ryan Stock.
Ah, the Cornhusker.
Wait, you're a Cornhusker?
Badger. But hey,
don't be too down on yourself.
You guys beat us in 2012, right?
Okay, okay. I was gonna say
nice to meet you,
but now I'm not so sure.
Oh, sports.
Anyways, uh, I'll see
you at the precinct.
Uh, Andy, nice to meet you.
You, too.
[sighs]
Well, it's a good thing
his personality makes up for,
you know, the ugly.[both chuckle]
Hey, Sarge.
Still going to the game?
Late night? No date?
I'm saying words, right?
Can someone please tell me
what's going on?
Very funny. Where's my stuff?
[shrieks]
[laughter, applause]
The pyrotechnics were
Fucci's touch.
For what,
may I ask?JASMINE: Attention,
please. Let's give it up
for Elizabeth Needham,
our newest
second grader.
[hooting, applause]
Needham!JASMINE:
I expect everyone
to be at the Lighthouse
Friday night. That's an order.
And, uh, Lizzie's
buying, of course.Great.
[laughter]
FUCCI:
Better hit the ATM, Needham.
I'm going deep in the count.
Okay.Don't get too comfortable,
Detective Second Grade.
That's your new office.
Seriously? Jas,
I can't take that.
FUCCI: Yeah, she can't.
That's where I take my naps.
I mean... do
my paperwork.
[phone chimes]Oh. Wow.
You can move in later.
Looks like we may have
a fresh one in Tribeca.
Oh. Okay.
Uh, you can clean up this mess.
What'd I miss?
Hey.
Well, someone seems
to be walking
with a more prominent
posture tonight.
I usually walk like a primate?
Technically, you area primate.
No, I'm noticing a more
authoritative strut,
like maybe someone
who was promoted
to detective second grade.
I'd hug you
if you weren't so averse to PDA.
I love PDA as long as it's not
too public, or too affectionate.
Anyway, this is
a crime scene.
Congratulations, Lizzie.
I couldn't have
done it without you.Hmm.
Took the words right
out of my mouth. [laughs]
A sweet 16.
What do they do
for a wedding?
Elope to Versailles
and eat money?
People tend
to lower their inhibitions
at over-the-top parties,
which is probably why
you don't like them.
But I've been to some fun ones.
[laughs]
Loi Krathong in Thailand,
the Boryeong Mud Festival.
Yeah, I'm thrilled for you and
your globetrotting blowouts,
but these are kids.
These are not kids. They're
wolverines in glitter makeup.
Still, it's nice to make up
for the parties I wasn't
invited to when I was a kid,
which was approximately
all of them.
The vic is Ella Baynes, 37,
wife and stepmother hosting
this modest little shindig.
She fell just as the birthday
girl was about to be announced.
Bulging C2, C3?
Broken neck.HARRIS:
Yeah. Very likely.
Facial trauma.
She hit hard.
I doubt we'll get
anything off that.
She fell from up there?HARRIS: Yeah.
Anyone up here wearing high
heels is risking their life.
Can't rule out
an accidental fall.
Yes, but the timing of it,
the theatricality,
suggests Ella's ending was...
premeditated.
WOMAN: Hey! Stop!BOYD: Get your hands off me!
ALEX:
What were you running
away from, huh?
Get that out of my face.He was trying to get away!
He did it! Take him!
You pushed her, you liar.All right, easy, easy, easy.
Will you take him, please?Oh, my God, it's Lord and Taylor
of the Flies.
This way. Put that away.What's up with this guy?
HARRIS:
Name's Boyd Carter,
cater-waiter.
Arrested for assault
two years ago.
Our victim fired him
shortly before her fatal fall.
Well, if this wasn't
an accident,
we have our first suspect.
Well, according to our
mob of 16-year-olds,
he's not just a suspect.
He's the murderer.
Who posted this?
The question may be,
who didn't?
♪
KIM: They were about to
announce Alex,
you know, for her
grand stage entrance.
We heard the commotion
and the splash.
And the next thing we knew,
she was facedown in fish.
Thank you, Kim.
I couldn't help
but notice earlier
that you keep your distance
from the others.
Thanks for noticing.Is there
a reason for that?
How long have you known
the birthday girl? Alex.
Since our moms met
in Mommy & Me.
Childhood chums.I guess.
More so before the divorce
left Alex with a new stepmom,
Ella.
Alex didn't take it real well.
Kind of turned her into a bitch.
I-I mean,
it's a cliché,
but Step-Ella
could be kind of evil.
And that's not displacement--
she really was.
Doesn't mean
we wanted her to die.
Understood.
I like you.SHAYLA: Hey.
You want to know
what happened?
That murderer was
all lech-y with us,
so Step-Ella canned him
to make Alex like her.EVIE:
Details are sketchy,
but from what I'm hearing,
Boyd Carter,
a high school-dropout waiter,
has been taken into custody.
We have here a gentleman who,
I think, works with the NYPD.
Although considering
his dapper attire,
I may be wrong.
Sir, uh,
if we could get
a few words?This is a crime scene,
little lady.
How about a little respect?
Sir, did you just
call her "little lady"?
Give me those.Hey, you can't do that!
Oh, quit whining.
It's a phone, not your kidneys.
You'll survive.Actually,
Evie's right--
you can't.
It's in violation of
the Constitution under
the Rileydecision.
What are you, pre-law?
Kim? She's AP English
and AP History.
JUSTIN:
AP Chem.
This is insane.
You know, I'm basically
a victim here, too.Oh.
Yeah? How do you figure?Look around.
It's all over social media
that I'm a killer.
My parents are trying
to raise bail money,
and I'm not even under arrest.
Why didn't you leave
after the victim fired you?
Those girls wouldn't let me.
Isn't there a law against
smearing people on the Internet?
Libel? Or-or slander?
You should arrest them.OFFICER: Let's go.
Please tell me
you found someone
who caught it on their phone.Not quite.
Lots of cheering,
lots of screaming, no perp.
You get anything from the
sweet 16 peanut gallery?
Yes.
I am very worried
about the future of mankind.
This constant urge
to record and
share everything
negatively affects
our brain activity.Anything about our case?
These kids are cut off
from the very experiences
they're trying
to capture.
So, anything
about our case?I'll put a call in
to the judge
to check their social media,
and I'll keep a tight leash
on the cater-waiter.
Reinhart and I
will go back inside
and talk to the vic's
husband and stepdaughter.
If you're done.I'm done.
But "social" and "media"
are two words
that do not belong together.
Okay, I'm done.
JASMINE:
So...
Jules...
is this your first
police station assignment
as a computer guy?
Yes, it is. Corporate offices
are more my bag, so to speak.
Must take some time getting used
to dealing with cops all day.
Well, I did watch
the Police Academymovies
when I was a child,
so I had some idea.
Are you single?
Me? Uh, no, not exactly.
Oh, too bad.
Oh. No. Not for me.
I just...
I thought I saw
some sparks between...
you and Lizzie.
Detective Needham?
She's out of my league.
I wouldn't be so sure.
You should come to her party.
Thanks for the invitation.
She brought out
the best in me.
In everyone.
Ella gave up her work so that
she could be present for Alex,
so that we
could build a family.
What the hell happened?
Can somebody tell me?
We're working on that,
Mr. Gerich, I promise you.
To do that, we're gonna need
more information from you.
Your first wife,
was she here tonight?
What does that matter?
My mom came and gave me
some makeup and a hug,
and then she was out the door,
because she couldn't
stomach being here.
Alexandra, not the time,
not the place.
I'm sorry.We're all upset
right now.
The divorce,
a new marriage,
Ella moving in.
It's all been
really hard on Alex.
And now this.
Is there anyone else
Ella was close with
that we could talk to?
[Alex sniffles]
Uh, she had a friend
here tonight, Molly.
It's hit her really hard.
We were friends.
For a long time.
Just when she was
finally living the fairy tale.
LIZZIE:
It's okay.
Take your time.
How did you two meet?
Uh, at culinary arts school.
We were assigned
to be partners
and became
close friends.
Ella was a nurturer.
She had a gift.
That girl could take
any ingredients
and create something delicious.
I couldn't form a
plan without her.
Hiring an old friend, then,
to work this party
was a no-brainer.
Yeah. We counted on each other.
I'm not sure what I'm
gonna do without her.
Detective Needham.
Excuse me.
Dead fish.
These were once
perfectly happy koi fish,
doing their best to adapt
to their not-so-natural habitat.
You're wondering
if these fish died
because something on Ella's
body was introduced to them
in their not-so-
natural habitat.Mm-hmm.
A contaminate?Toxin?
A toxin originating from Ella.
Yes, leaching
into the water
and killing these
now not-so-happy fish.
I'll get CSU back here,
get some water samples.
And don't let them forget
those guys.
We can't assume they're...
red herrings.
Really?
Not to pat myself
on the back,Oh, God forbid.
but if we are looking
for poison,
it may confirm my theory
of a premeditated plan.
If she was carrying a toxin,
she may have been dead or dying
before she even hit the water.
Ella moved to New York from
Erie. Middle-class upbringing.
Parents deceased,
and a sister who lives in Tampa.
This was her first marriage,
and from everything I read,
she seemed like
a really nice person.
Am I boring you?
I just can't understand
why Sam hasn't called.
Andy doesn't think we
should call her, but I
think we should call her.
What do you think?
I'm not gonna call.
You really want to
know what I think?
Don't answer that.
C.O.D. is cervical fracture.
That's a broken neck.
Thanks. We think something else
may also have played a factor.
Of course you do.What about her face?
Looks like more than
just trauma from the fall.
Skin irritation
is not the C.O.D.
Can you imagine a world
in which anything other than
a broken neck could be a factor?
Doug, her face swelled,
like she had a reaction
to something.
There was a waiter
with a record
in attendance.
Maybe he slipped something
into her food or drink
after she fired him?
Revenge can serve to restore
a psychological balance
that had been disturbed.
Okay, Freud,
can we put a hold
on human behavior and stick
to hard science, please?
General tox screen
came back negative.
There's no toxins
in her stomach
or esophagus.
So it wasn't ingested.
Injected?No needle marks.
I checked.
LIZZIE:
Which means the toxin
could have been inhaled
or absorbed through the skin
with a topical...
Maybe her makeup
was laced with something.
I can't run a specific
tox screen till I know
what I'm
looking for, so...
sleuth some more.
Our sweet 16 got her makeup
from her mom
right before she
took off, early.
And then her ex-husband's new,
younger wife died.
Always put your money
on the jealous ex.
Hard science?
Alex says you
didn't stay very long
after she opened her gift.I...
felt far too uncomfortable.
It's another planet over there.
Over-the-top, tacky, ridiculous.
I want no
part of that.
And I don't want Alex to,
either. Wrong values.
Steve and I share
joint custody, so...
DYLAN:
You don't seem
all that broken up
by any of this.The whole thing
is awful.
I feel for Alex.
On top of everything else,
having to live with that memory.
When did things start to change
between you and Steve?
Well, Steve changed
after he struck gold at work.
Our whole marriage was
different after that point.
He wanted to be part
of New York's moneyed world.
I don't care
about that stuff as much.
As much as Ella?
The struggling baker turned
upper-class socialite?
Yeah, I'd say Ella
struck gold, too.
[sighs] Look, I
don't like the idea
of being replaced
by a younger version of myself,
but that doesn't mean
I'm happy she's dead.
Or that I killed her.
Strong motive,
works in cosmetics,
practically fleeing
the scene of the crime.
But what kind
of mother spends years
giving her child love,
then knowingly traumatizes
that child
at her sweet 16 party?
Why, Dr. Reinhart, are you
letting your objectivity slip?
You're thinking
like a parent.
Oh, my God, I am.
I cannot lose control
of my rational,
unemotional approach
to human behavior.
It's what I do. Too late.
Late. Oh, my God,
I'm late for class!
I'm driving.
You won't be late.Will you put the sirens on?
No.But you're
a detective second grade.
Now you're
not even getting
the light bar.
Ah. Six minutes,
47 seconds tardy.
I stand here before you ashamed.
[laughter]
No, really.
I pride myself
on my punctuality.
When I fail your young,
impressionable minds,
I am diminished.
[sighs]
For about 15 seconds.
[laughter]
Self-image
is greatly affected
by social evaluation.
I work to earn your respect,
to gain influence,
to attain status.
And then you,
depending on my vibe...
decide what kind
of person I am,
what group
you're gonna put me in.
Maybe you'll stick me with, uh,
Rebecca, Garrett and Nicholas
because they are late
for absolutely everything.
[laughter]
Or maybe you're gonna
put me in the group
with X-Man and Sully,
because they're not afraid
of anyone
and "rules are for schmucks,
bro."
[laughter]
The problem is,
and this goes for everyone,
we have no say
in the status we get.
Status exists solely
in the minds of others.
And yet,
we obsessively pursue it.
[phone chimes]
Of course now,
in the age of social media,
we can have absolute knowledge
of the group
we have been relegated to,
the label we have been given,
how many "likes" we have.[phone chimes]
Hey, Sully, how about you
demonstrate the art
of rule-breaking
somewhere else, okay?
[laughs]: I think you want
to see this, Professor.
♪ This is a crime scene, little,
little, little, little lady ♪
♪ How about a little respect ♪ Little, little lady
♪ How about a little respect? What the...?
[laughter]♪ This, this is a crime scene
♪ Little, little,
little, little lady ♪
♪ How about a little respect?
♪ Little, little lady ♪ How about a little respect?
♪ This, this is a crime scene
DYLAN:
43,000 views?
Is that a lot?
♪ How about a little respect?
[music playing faintly]
[sighs]
[indistinct chatter]
[chatter continues]
[phone ringing]
Hey.
So the foundation found
in Ella's makeup
contains an unusually high
alkaline content.
Higher than anything found
in her home.
Oh, so someone must've doctored
it at the party before Ella
applied it to her face?It's certainly looking that way.
We're looking into anyone
who may have had access
to her makeup or bag
before and during the party.
Hopefully we find
something soon.
[quietly]:
In other news,
there is a GIFof me doing
the rounds on the Internet.
Uh, it's pronounced GIF.
And it's not a GIF,
it's a video.
How do you know?
Show me your computer screen
right now.
My own partner.
Complicit in my viral spiral.
Oh, it's just a
little harmless fun.
I am a public figure.
It must stop.
You can't control social media.
Oh, well, when you have
your own GIFor GIF,
or whatever it's called,
then talk to me.
[mutters]
Bye.
[knocking on door]
Yeah.
Come in.
Brand-new office and this is how
you thank me? Sad, empty walls?
Give me some time.Mm.
You know...Wall art,
chalkboard paint, murals.
[knocking on door]
Oh. My apologies.
I'll come back later.
JASMINE: No, come on in.
I was just heading out.
I'm told this room needs
another port installed.
Oh, that sounds super important.
I'll leave you two alone.
You can discuss it further.
[door closes]
Okay, that was weird.
She thinks we have chemistry.
She told you that?
Please,
open the door before anyone else
thinks we have chemistry.
In a minute. I gave Jasmine
my official cover story,
but I want you
to know that Jules
has to take a little time off.
Where?
A region outside New York City.
A region? How long for?
Are we talking days, weeks?
Depends on the assignment's
difficulty assessment.
What's that? Like, one to ten?
Ten being most likely
to be dismembered?
Please trust me and know
I will do my best
to make it back for your party.
Forget about my party.
Just make it back safe.
I really love what you've done
with the place.
♪ This is a,
this is a crime scene ♪
[laughter]
♪ Little, little lady,
how about a little respect? ♪
♪ Little lady?
This is painful.It's priceless. Who made it?
ZACK: A teenage boy
at the crime scene.
FUCCI: That's impressive.
My kid once spent
an entire hour tangled
in our garden hose.
Play it again.
[laughter]
Uh, here he is.
[laughter, applause]
Please, no.
Hey, Detective Second Grade
on deck!
At ease. And enough, really.
I think the biological mom
is still relevant,
but no way our cater-waiter
concocted an alkaline poison
the same night he was fired.I agree.
I just can't get the teenagers
out of my mind.
Why, because of your GIF?
Because unlike most teenagers,
this crew demonstrates
a rare combination
of ingenuity
and stupidity.You should make
a point right about now.
DYLAN: What if Ella dying
was an accident?
The kids clearly don't like her,
we know Alex hated her,
but I don't see them as killers.
LIZZIE:
So maybe the poison makeup
was a teen prank gone bad?
Its planning, its plotting,
its execution surpasses putting
a frog in a teacher's drawer
or putting hot sauce
in the underwear
of an eighth grade classmate.
Just once.
If it was a prank, they could
have pulled it off together.
They seem to do
everything else together.
So let's search
their social media accounts.
We got the warrant.
You never had that
kind of decisiveness
as a third grade detective.
Promotion changes people.
Come on, get in here.
This is more horrifying
than any crime scenes
I've been to.
Don't.
Does that say
100,000 views?
I'm getting this off
the Internet before I lose
all my professional credibility.
Yeah, you can't take
things off the Internet.
What, you think I'm
happy there's a photo
of me from college
vomiting in a mailbox?
But I have to,
before Sam sees it.
She's thinking of giving
her firstborn to...
that.
That's what Andy's for.
♪ How about a little respect?
300 likes?
That's not even a great photo.
Alex was popular,
and clearly not liking Ella
moving into the house.
Look at these private posts to
her friends early in the year.
"I wish I could kick
the bitch out."
"She thinks
she's a swimsuit model, gag.
I'm so done with her."
[eerie sound effect plays]
LIZZIE: Alex posted this
three months ago.
DISTORTED VOICE:
You're going to die.
What if the teens aren't
the killers? Just Alex is.
And she used her party
to make this GIF a reality?
SHAYLA:
Alex is up in her room.
JUSTIN: And way too
upset to talk to anyone.
LIZZIE: Maybe
you can help us.
Know anything about this?
[eerie sound effect plays]
JUSTIN: Yeah,
I think that GIF's
from, like,
the Obama administration?
Dial it back, smart-ass.
So you've seen it before?
A rando vid Alex posted?
It's NBD.
You don't know what NBD is?
Of course I know what NBD is.
SHAYLA: "Alex on Ella"
is not some state secret.
Ella was her stepmom.
Everyone hates stepmoms.
That goes back
to ancient times.
Oh, like
the Obama administration?
STEVE:
Okay, Alex doesn't need
gatekeepers right now, guys.
Go home, let the detectives
do their jobs.
No big deal. NBD.
Oh, of course.
[Alex crying]
You made this?
No. I just reposted it
because it was a thing,
making fun of stepmoms.
I know I didn't act like it,
but I really got to like Ella.
Party-planning and hanging
out with her, and I loved
how happy she made you.
Why didn't you ever tell her?
Or me?I should have,
but it felt
like a betrayal to Mom.
If you didn't post this,
who did?
Kim.
Your oldest friend. ThatKim?
STEVE:
That doesn't sound like her.
ALEX:
Kim's done a lot
of things that don't
sound like Kim.
Can you be
more specific, please?
Letting people cheat off her
in calculus or chem lab.
She never
used to do that.
It's stuff to fit in
with the rest of us.
STEVE:
Fit in?
You two have been friends
since you learned to crawl.
I have new friends, I guess.
Kim tries,
but stuff happens,
and it isn't the same.
We aren't the same.
Maybe Kim made that GIF for Alex
in an attempt to be included.
Right, and she took
the stepmom hate
to another level with a prank,
only it went very, very wrong.
She's a smart kid.
One of her subjects is AP Chem.
Top student might have
access to peroxides, acids.
And the know-how
to use it discreetly.
KIM: It felt good
making everybody laugh.
I-I just wanted Alex back.
I mean, those girls,
they're always, like,
standing guard around her,
and I know Alex
better than any of them.
It's not fair.
It's hard enough, you know?
On the upside, we understand you
already received a scholarship
offer from MIT.
DYLAN:
You mentioned AP Chem.
Students don't have access
to chemicals at school, do they?
Just the teachers.
And me. So what?
LIZZIE: We have
reason to believe
that a toxin was used on Ella.
This toxin contributed
to her death.
You're not saying my daughter
had something to do with this?
I-It was cool
to hate on her stepmom,
but I-I would never take it
to that level. Never.
I think it might be a good time
to call our lawyer.
Why don't we take advantage
of your new office?
Oh, nah, I can't
think in there.
The poison, the timing,
the sophistication.
The girl is
perfectly capable.
She knows pH better
than her ABCs.
And she did call Ella
"evil stepmom."
Maybe she was trying to finish
the fairy tale on Alex's behalf.
[sighs] I don't think those kids
even know those fairy tales,
unless they're posted
on Instagram.
No, the motive's off.
This is about...
feeling left out, friendship,
friendship lost.
Alex left Kim behind.
But why would Kim
hold Ella responsible for that?
So who did Ella
leave behind?
We've been looking
at the wrong friendship.
Molly Tynan.
Molly said that she and Ella
were best friends,
how they counted
on each other.
She even said
she wasn't sure
what she'll do without Ella.
They were both bakers.
Maybe they had a culinary
idea or venture.
DYLAN:
Hmm.
LIZZIE: There it is.
They've been forging
this business plan
since they were students.
At least until
Ella married up,
and then instead of being
a business partner,
Molly found herself
in the role
of hired help
at Ella's party.
That has a sting to it.
DYLAN:
Question now is,
did Molly choose to sting back?
If Molly truly did poison
her friend,
what better place
to take Ella down
than in front of her new
family and social circle.
Okay, maybe behaviorally
it lines up,
but we need something more
tangible to make it stick.
What toxin could
this woman have used
that wouldn't show up
on a general tox screen?
Well, something specific,
specialized.
She's a cook.
She knows ingredients.
Ella's makeup had a
high alkaline trace.
Fruit has a high
alkaline content.
Poison fruit?
The poison apple.
A fairy tale symbol
of beauty, ugliness, envy.
If bitten,
it causes a deathlike sleep.
Ella wasn't the evil stepmother.
She was Cinderella.
It was her friend who is evil.
Your baby's
never gonna fall asleep
with youreading
the fairy tales.
Not all tales are make-believe.
There is a real fruit
named manchineel.
"The little apple of death."
I doubt Molly would have been
cooking with poison apples.
But a culinary artist would
know where to find them.
The beach apple believed
to have killed Ponce de León
was green, sweet-smelling.
But the sap inside
was toxic,
causing burn-like blisters
to the skin on contact.
Mix a concentration of that
sap into some makeup and...
Our grim tale
becomes a swan dive.
Can I help you?
Molly, we spoke to you
regarding Ella's death.
Yes. Has...
something come up?We think
you may have something
to do with it.
How so?
[chuckles nervously]
She was poisoned, Molly.
Would you happen to know
anything about that?
No.
Poisoned?
Uh, no, should I?
Could you show me
your right hand, please?
Please.
DYLAN:
Blisters consistent with the
kind we found on Ella's face.
If we were to test
your hand, compare it
to Ella,
what would we find?
She wasn't supposed to die.
It was...
it was just a little bit,
so that she'd break out
into a rash.
You just wanted
to embarrass her in front
of the new people in her life.
Take her down a peg or two.
She was living in make-believe.
Pretending to, uh,
be somebody that she wasn't.
She gave up on our dream.
People don't change like that!
LIZZIE:
You're under arrest.
[indistinct chatter, laughter]
♪ Little lady,
how about some respect? ♪
♪ Little lady, how about
some respect? ♪
♪ Wow, your GIF's getting
a lot of love.Yes,
almost, uh, 200,000 views.
Whoa.What's the record?
ZACK:
For one video?
Yeah.Around, like,
5.4 billion.
[laughter]
FUCCI:
Close, close.
DYLAN:
It's not a competition.
Okay? It's just...Good, good.
FUCCI: Oh!
Detective Second Grade on deck!
[Ryan grunts]
Uh-oh. What's
going on here?
LIZZIE:
Just...
taking my desk back.
You can have my office.
Really? I-I can have
your private office?
FUCCI:
Yeah, sure, why not? I mean,
you've already been in the
precinct for, like, two weeks.
Okay.
What? I missed this.
I miss you guys.
But if any of you
call me Detective Second Grade
again, you'll regret it.
Detective Needham,
you're giving up
some prime real estate there.Yeah, it's not so prime
when you're off on your own.
For better or worse,
this squad is my family,
and I'm not about
to be left out of it.
HARRIS:
Tox screen's back
on Ella's makeup.
The chemical phorbol,
linked to a class of apple tree.
Well done.
[groans]
NBD.
Nobody beats Dylan.
G-I-A-R.
Uh, give it a rest.
[chuckling]
♪
There are still steps involved.
I know, yes, yes,
steps, lots of steps.
B-But just tell me,
how did she say it?
Tell me exactly,
word-for-word.Okay, well,
I didn't exactly have
a stenographer handy,
but she said, "I
would like to meet
to talk about the
possibility of adoption."
Oh! I love that sentence.
I love every word,
even the punctuation.
But not in a controlling way.
I-I want to...
say sorry for being
a little too much
about the whole
calling-Sam thing.
This adoption, it...
...it reminds me
of my childhood,
and I'm... controlling that
by being controlling.
Look, I get it. That was
your way when you didn't fit in.
But... you're a grown-up now.
Yeah. I'm a grown-up who...
still doesn't fit in.
It's just, with our child, I...
want to get a lot of likes.And you will.
You will be
the Kardashians of parenting.
That came out wrong.
Hey, speaking
of social media,
Sam had a lot of high praise
for your viral video.
Are you serious?Mm-hmm, yes.
She said it made her laugh.
[chuckles]
LOL, social media.
No. Mm-mm.[laughs]
Oh.
Hey![laughter]
[indistinct chatter]
DYLAN:
Coming up to 200K!
Half of which,
I think, are yours.
Elizabeth Needham,
second grader!
[all hooting, cheering]Second grade!
LIZZIE:
Easy on the shots!
Okay? Even a second
grade detective
has a max
on her credit card.
You know,
I didn't make second grade
till I was almost 40.We talking
second grade detective
or just second grade?[laughter]
HARRIS: So now
that you are single,
maybe you'll let
me set you up.
Oh. Well, is he funny?
Yes. Though not always
intentionally.
Hmm. What celebrity
does he look like?
Uh, I get "the Jewish
Richard Gere" a lot.
Water, please.The good thing,
Sergeant,
is neither one of us
are gonna remember this
on Monday.
Oh, yeah, but I am.
[laughter, chatter continues]
FUCCI: Who wants
another round on Lizzie?
MAN: Lizzie,
I'll take one.
FUCCI: Here,
make mine a double.
I'm just gonna...
Hey. Are you okay?
Yeah.
Jay, the bartender who can I.D.
the Sleeping Beauty killer,
he wants to meet up right now.Well, good.
It means he must have
discovered something else.
And at this hour, it must be
something that can't wait.
Where are you meeting?
Uh, Ludlow and Division.
That's not far.
I'll drive.
Okay.
♪ How long
♪ How long till I'm all gone?
Here you go. Thanks.
♪ 'Cause here I am
♪ Just stumbling
down Elysian Fields... ♪
Stand down,
Detective Second Grade.
You pulling rank on me?
Always.
[door opens]
[man groans]
Sorry I'm late.
Hey, Jimmy.
[sighs]
I thought Jules
would show up, too.
A rooftop meeting.
What could
possibly go wrong?
Well, you could have
stayed in the car.
Jay?
Jay? Detective Stock.
I'll call him.
[line ringing]
[phone ringing nearby]
[gun cocks][ringing continues]
[ringing continues]
[recorded]: Hey, it's Jay.
Leave a message.
RYAN:
It's Jay.
DYLAN:
Why leave a photo of the body
and not the body itself?
"It's on"?
He changed his signature.
He's starting to enjoy it.
RYAN:
He's toying with us.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
♪ This is,
this is a crime scene ♪
♪ Little, little, little,
little lady ♪
♪ How about a little respect,
little, little lady? ♪
little lady? ♪
♪ This is,
this is a crime scene ♪
♪ Little, little, little,
little lady ♪
♪ How about a little respect,
little, little lady? ♪
little lady? ♪
♪ This is,
this is a crime scene ♪
♪ Little, little, little,
little lady ♪
♪ How about a little respect,
little lady? ♪
♪ Little lady, little lady.